- [Instructor] Now that we've added the method in the DAO
let's come back to the SearchServlet
and let's call the DAO from here.
So, on line number 20, I'm going to
make an instance of application DAO.
Let's do that.
And, once we do that we also call
the search products method.
So, I'm going to say dao.searchProducts
and the search string that we have are collected
on line number 21, we just going to pass
that as an argument.
And, collect this entire output in a list of products.
Right.
Now, let's look at the next step.
The next step will be to build a method
in the SearchServlet which is going
to read the entire searchResults.html file.
We talked about the portion where we need
to read the entire HTML as a string.
Right.
That's what we are going to do now.
The method is going to do a couple of jobs.
One is to read the entire HTML as a string
and then to replace those placeholders
with the relevant data of product images and the names.
And, for that, we are going to use message format API.
So, let's build this method inside the SearchServlet.
So, I've already put out a command for it,
a documentation command
and the command states that this method
that we are going to generate now
is going to read the HTML template as a string,
replace the placeholders with the values,
and return the entire page back as a string.
So, let's write that method.
I'm going to say public String getHTMLString.
It'll take two parameters.
One is the path of that HTML file
and we want the data,
which will get replaced in the placeholder,
so let's take that as a list of products.
What are we going to do inside?
We are going to read that entire file
for which I'm going to use code Java APIs.
So, I'm going to use the bufferedReader object
and I'm going to instantiate this.
And, for that, I'm also going to pass an instance
of the file reader
to which I'll pass the file path.
So, this is going to be simple Java code
that you may already be aware of.
After this, I'm going to take a simple string variable
which represents every line.
Let's set it to empty initially.
Let's also take a StringBuffer object
which is going to store all the contents of the entire HTML.
So, I'm going to instantiate that as well.
Now, let's go ahead and put a while loop
which is going to read everything from this file line by line.
So, I'm going to say while and inside that
every line is going to get the output
from the reader.readLine API call.
So, I'm going to check if this is not null.
So, I'm going to keep running this while loop
until this line is not null.
If it is null, it means I have reached the end of the file.
Right.
So, let's put the while loop
and let's collect every line in that buffer object.
So, I'm going to open that line to the buffer.
Once I am done with the reading process,
I can come out on line number 53,
I am just going to take the reader object and close it.
So, every resource that you open in the code
has to definitely be closed
as a part of your clean up activity.
So, once we are done with that
what we do is we take another page variable
and empty the entire contents of the buffer
as a string value right there.
Now, of course, these errors that you are able to see
are because these lines could possibly throw an exception.
So, I'm quickly going to add the tools clause
and eliminate those errors.
Once we do that, what we've done is
we've done with the first step.
We've read the entire HTML as a string.
Now, the next bit is you just need
to replace those placeholders with the data.
So, let's come back and on line number 56
I'm going to say, I'm going to format this page
using the message format API.
So, let's do that,
MessageFormat,
call the format API,
pass the page that you need to format
and the argument will be the entire data from products.
Now, for the sake of simplicity,
I've taken only three products to be displayed on the page.
So, I'm going to access the products by their indices.
So, I'm going to say products.get of zero
.getproduct image.
That's the first placeholder
for the first product.
And, I'm going to do the same thing
for the rest of the other products as well.
So, just hit an enter
and append this data to it.
So, this is for the product number zero.
This will be for product number one.
And, that will be for product number two.
Similarly, I need to open the data
for the product name as well.
So, again, I will have to first fetch the products
from the list by the index.
Get zero
and then let's say getProductName.
And now, the same thing I'll have to do
for the rest of the two products.
So, I'm just going to copy this
and continue to paste it after the comma.
So, this will be for product number one
and that is again, product number two.
So, we have replaced all the placeholders
for product images and names.
But, there's an action placeholder that we had
for items in cart.
Right now, it is going to be zero.
So, I'm just going to append that zero
and put a semi-colon to end this call.
So, the message format is going to take arguments
which is the page of self that you want to format
and all the data that you want
to replace in the placeholders.
That, again, goes as a comma separated list of values,
that's all.
Once we do this, let's come back
and on line number 62, I am just going
to return this entire page variable back.
Right.
Now, what we need to do is once we are ready
with this method we need to write that replaced page
back to the web browser using the PrintWriter API.
So, let's call this method from the do get method.
So,
lines number 27 and 28 where we are calling the DAO.
I'm just going to put it up in the respective method block.
So, that's calling the DAO layer
and getting all the products and now we are going
to write the products data back to the client.
For that, on line number 34,
I'll have to call this method here.
So, I'm going to say String page equal to
getHTMLString and I have to pass those arguments.
The file path will be given
by the method of getServletContext
and chain another API on it getRealPath.
Please don't worry about this.
We are anyway going to look at this
at a later point in our course.
Filter relative path of that HTML
which is searchResults.html
and the second argument is, of course, the products.
Once we get this, we just have to say getWriter
and call the right method and stuff
that entire page back to the client.
So now that we've written out the response
there's one last step that we have to execute.
We have to assign the proper attributes
to the form element on the HTML.
So, let's go back to Eclipse.
Let's go to the index.html.
That's the subsection
and if you look at the SearchServlet,
we have already used the an edition approach
to define the URL pattern for this servlet.
So, I'm just going to pick this up,
go to my next HTML and on the form element,
I need to define a couple of attributes.
One is the action, which is the search URL pattern
and the method, because we are making a get request,
the method is going to be set to get.
Please know that in the previous video,
we had actually implemented a get request
by just accessing the URL.
When you access the URL, you are just bound
to make a get request by default.
Here we are making a get request via the form element.
Right.
So, now, let's go ahead and run our changes
and see if everything works fine.
So, I'm going to take this,
open the application in the browser,
and click on the search hyperlink,
enter the search criteria,
there you go.
You have got all the items listed
as per the search criteria.
Let me try out another search criteria.
Let's say protein.
And, you get all the protein bars listed
with respect to my search criteria.
So, that's how you can implement a get request
in our application.